Instructor: Let's use these
debugging techniques to find
and fix the bug in this script.
This script defines
a variable, "beat,"
which is beatString(),
and defines another variable
"sound" and assigns it
a sound constant from
the EarSketch sound library.
It then as a for loop,
which calls makeBeat()
eight times to use that sound
and that beatString() to repeat
the beat string eight times
in a row on track 1 of the DAW.
This all sounds great
but when I press
the run button, I immediately
get an error on line 22.
And the error messages says,
"RangeError: A provided
argument is not within
"the set or range of acceptable
values for a function."
So if I don't know
what that means right away,
the best thing I can try first
is to use the prinln() function
in JavaScript to find out
what's going on
inside of this for loop.
And it says that the problem
is with a provided argument,
so why don't I go ahead
and print out the values of all
the arguments to makeBeat.
So I can go println(sound),
println(measure),
and println(beat).
And then I can press run again
and I can see what happens.
Well "sound" is
this sound constant
so that seems to be okay.
"Measure" is 0 and "beat"
is the beatString().
So the beatString()
and the "sound" seem to be okay.
If I look more closely
at "measure" and think about it,
realize that EarSketch
always starts at measure 1.
There is no such thing
as measure 0 in EarSketch.
So let's focus in
on that for a minute.
I'm going to delete
println(beat).
println(sound) so we can
focus just on printing out
our "measure" values.
And I'm going to comment out
this makeBeat() function call
so that the entire
for loop will work.
I won't get any errors,
hopefully, but I'll just see
what the value
of "measure" is
every time I go
through the loop.
And when I do that
I can see that "measure"
is 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7.
So it's repeating 8 times
but from 0 to 7 instead
of from 1 to 8 the way
that I wanted it to.
So if I look back
at the declaration of for loop
here I can see we start
by initializing "measure" to 0.
I can change that to 1.
I can press run again.
That fixes part of it
because now we get
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
so I'm not trying to put
music on measure 0 anymore
but it's also
only repeating seven times.
I never get up to measure 8.
That's because of the stopping
condition here, measure < 8.
We want that to be measure < 9
so that it will actually go
through the for loop
for the number 8
and not stop when it gets to 8.
So if I now press run
one more time I can see we have
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8—
the eight times that we
go through the for loop.
So now I think I can go ahead
and uncomment the makeBeat()
function call, so it will
actually put the music
in the DAW and create
a rhythm that we can hear.
[electronic bass drum beats]